# Fermentation.app

## A tool for fellow fermenters

Have you ever suddenly realized that you forgot to stir your soy sauce?
Left your kefir go sour? Fermentation.app is an open source mobile app
that helps you with that. Made by keen fermenters, the app aims to make
the practice easier by keeping track of when and what to check on your
ferments.

We want it to work with the widest spectrum of fermentation pratices :
whether you are growing koji, making cheese, baking sourdough or any
other activity that involves time and temperature control, you should be
able to create the fermentation template that fits your needs

We are currently using the React-Native framework to develop this app.

How it works
------------

We are building the app from the idea that regardless of the type of
fermentation, the variables are the same.

**Time ‚åõ + Temperature üå°Ô∏è + Humidity üíß**

From that idea, any fermentation project can be constructed into any
number of steps towards the final product. For example, a Miso could be
decomposed this way :

**1. growing koji ‚û° 2. aging miso**

You can add as many steps as you need and configure each of these with a
time span, temperature and humidity ranges as well as preparation
instructions if needed.

Never forget a ferment again
----------------------------

For each step, you can set alerts indicating which action needs to be
performed on your ongoing ferment. The ferments that need to be checked
will be grouped in the control room, which provides an overview of all
your fermentations.

Share your templates
--------------------

Share the templates you created with the community, thus enabling
beginners and contributing to the shared knowledge by letting us know
your take on hot sauce and what are the steps that make your approach
peculiar.

Straight to the point
---------------------

Because we think the app shouldn't get in your way while you handle
fermentation work, user experience is critical. We want it to work as
intuitively and smoothly as possible, allowing to create templates and
check alerts on the fly. Careful use of color, well hierarchized
typesetting and visual cues such as emojis will work together to make
everything as straightforward as can be.

Spread the culture
------------------

We believe that fermentation is inherently about sharing and that,
thanks to this, we are learning faster and making progress as a
community. In that spirit, we are making our app fully open-source.

On top of using existing system emojis, we are drawing our very own
fermentation-specific emoji set. It will be used in the application and
will contribute to its ease of use, but we'd like it to go further than
that.

Drawing emojis for soy sauce, natto, tempeh or sumbala will also be a
great way to acknowledge the vastness of fermentation around the world.
We also think that it could have a great educational value and
contribute in spreading fermentation culture to wider audiences.

Project status
--------------

We have much more work to do and many features to implement. We have
jobs that take a good part of our time, but we are dedicated to the
project as we believe this can be a powerful tool for fermentation
practicioners. Beyond avoiding mistakes and making planning easier, we
feel that this also could strengthen the fermentation community and
contribute in spreading knowledge.

If you are interested in the project, there are many ways to support us.

We are looking for
------------------

üíª Developers (React-native)

üß† Fermentation specialists

ü¶† Fermentation practitioners

üí∞ Sponsors

Current team
------------

[**Jacques Delon** - graphic designer](https://jacquesdelon.com/)

[**Rapha√´l Bonnet**  - lead developer](https://bonobocuisine.com/)

[**Cory Hughart** - developer](https://coryhughart.com/)


How to contribute
-----------------

If you have development, copy-writing or fermentation-related knowledge
and abilities that you could bring to the project, please get in touch.
Same goes if you want to contribute any other way, or if you just want
to chat.

#### [contribute@fermentation.app](mailto:contribute@fermentation.app)

If you want to contribute to the project, you can also back us on open
collective.

#### [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/fermentationapp)

tags: #fermentation #professionnel #programmation
